well a Hamas delegation has left KIRO
without a breakthrough in cesa
negotiations broken by Egypt by Qatar
and by the United States but the group
says the talks have not collapsed and it
will continue negotiating through
mediators badram is a member of the
political Bureau of herass and joins us
now live sir first of all can we just
clarify if we could first of all your
negotiating delegation has left the
talks but the talks will continue how is
that going to happen and where
in the name of Allah Almighty at the
beginning delegation of Hamas has left
Cairo today to meet with the leaders of
Hamas for more
consultations regarding what's going on
and regarding the recent round of talks
in Cairo it is clear that Netanyahu and
the government of Israel are
insisting on playing with all the
parties and they are not responding to
the main demands not only of Hamas but
of our Palestinian people the necessity
of reaching a ceas fire and the
necessity of allowing the displaced
people to go back to North Gaza and to
go back to their homes and allowing the
humanitarian Aid to go
freely without conditions to the gazin
and the
Reconstruction that will happen after
the war the occupation is refusing to
accept these main demands of our
Palestinian people okay there is still
confidence in the United States that an
A positive outcome can be achieved
through these negotiations and
relatively soon do you agree with that
optimism
[Music]
the American Administration is not
impartial and is not a fair mediator the
American Administration is a partner
directly with Netanyahu and his
government in the war against our
Palestinian people the US Administration
is supporting nanyu politically metally
financially and on the Diplomatic level
through the us uh veto in the security
Council that's why what is said by the
US Administration are only mere
statements without real will to stop the
war or to reach an agreement even
temporary agreement and the US must
practice pressures on the occupation and
it can do the Americans practically are
going parallel with the occupation with
the Israeli occup that's why their
statements do not represent the reality
what will it take for Hamas to agree to
a ceasefire
deal first of all I need to confirm once
again that we are not talking about
certain requests for Hamas we talk about
the demands of the Palestinian people we
had consultations we had coordination
with the effective Palestinian powers
and
consequently the situations that we talk
about during the talks are National
Palestinian positions and not Hamas
Palestinian positions today we need to
talk about direct ceas fire we need to
agree about the mechanism of a ceas fire
and the most important is to allow the
displac people to go back to the north
of Gaza and the necessity of allowing
the humanitarian Aid Medical Aid food to
go everywhere in Gaza to reach everyone
in Gaza particularly in the north the
north is facing starvation as mentioned
by every media outlet and the occupation
is putting a lot of obstacles in this
connection allow me to remember you that
starvation for the civilians direct
killings of the civilians preventing the
hospitals from providing the citizens
with the health services are always the
way that is opposite to the
international agreement and nanyu and
his government must be U taken to the
courts it takes two of course to agree
to a ceasefire and Israel said that they
stayed away from the Kyo talks because
Hamas refused to provide a list of
hostages who are still alive why did you
not do
that discussions about this point is
nothing to do or has nothing to do with
this is fire when it comes to the
prisoners in the Israeli jails this is
also an important matter we have more
than 10,000 Palestinian prisoners in the
Israeli and we need the world to know
that some of them have been detained for
more than 44 years with out seeing the
door of the prison we talk about
hundreds of women and we have hundreds
of men without even charges that's why
this is an important issue for us and we
consider now the top priority is to help
our Palestinian people in Gaza to stop
the destruction to stop the genoci side
and we need not to talk now about the
details of the prisoners now we need to
help the Palestinians in Gaza and the
occupation is refusing to give clear
answers regarding the humanitarian uh uh
situation in Gaza Strip H badran we'll
leave it there thank you H badran member
of the political Bureau of
Hamas all right listening to that is
Tamar kmud who's assistant professor of
public policy the day Institute for
Graduate Studies tamy good to have you
with us um so Ramadan was the target
deadline for a ceasefire that will not
now be met it's pretty clear ramadan's
going to what Sunday Monday it's coming
on Sunday on Monday um so what's your
sense of optimism or otherwise about
this SE far happening um uh Nick
personally I'm not optimistic but we
still have a couple of days uh I mean
before Ramadan starts uh tonight there
is an important meet meeting for the
Israeli cabinet and uh there also I
think Hamas has returned the ball to the
Israel and the American side so also
they have to decide how to go on to to
move on with this because the pressure
also is in Israel and the us as well I
mean the international comination is has
is like has peaked like you know the
international the entire world is very
tired with this world and the question
is would the Americans green light the
Israelis because now if these um negoti
negotiations officially fail or collapse
we don't have an official statement from
the two sides yet to indicate this then
this means Israel has to enter ra and so
far uh we know from American statements
that they have refused or they're not in
support of the Israel's entering Rafa uh
so let's see I mean Hamas has returned
the B to both the US and Israel so so in
a sense Hamas is is making a statement
just by by leaving KY yes of course
stating their position yeah of of course
of course and uh and I think it's um it
could be a smart moved by them because
because because they know also that
they're not under pressure alone I I
mean we know the the the size of the
disaster in the Gaza Strip but also the
Americans with the US elections now is
is getting more momentum you know uh all
these counts coming from the US showing
that many voters have abstained angry
with the Democrats so Biden
Administration knows this now so will
they will they bless or give a green
light for Netanyahu to go in Rafa in a
full military operation and start the
big Massacre because we know most people
are Corner in rafah and that's a big
dilemma for the Americans and especially
that them and the Israelis are really
isolated on the international arena in
the UN with all this building pressure
uh but it's a tricky situation I mean
Israel has I mean we know Israel's
military conduct we know that Israel has
crossed so many lines in this fight
Hamas at the same time is not in an easy
position the people are really suffering
with the famine and all this destruction
so it's it's like a Russian the Russian
relate now who's going to like you know
so we're in this situation more it's
pretty evident it's not Benjamin
netanyahu's priority to get the captives
released and what do you say to those
who who think that he's just trying to
undermine the talk he's just stalling
for time well let's let's listen to what
the head of opposition said like you
know they're angry and they're blaming
Natan of failing these negotiations they
accuse natany of of lacking anyone to do
so because if and they say he could save
these negotiations and allow give a
chance for the 40 Israeli captives to be
released in exchange for Palestina
prisoners but he's not doing this and
sadly the Biden Administration is also
siding with natany on this blaming Hamas
but the Israeli opposition is not
blaming Hamas it's blaming nanyo so here
we have these different opinions but the
Israelis if we listen to the Israelis
and their opposition of course they have
a different opinion blaming Natan not
Hamas on this and that's interesting
Israel say that the the military
pressure on Hamas is the best way to
secure a release of the captives and in
fact the only time there has been a
release has been through negotiations
isn't it yeah but also many of the
captives have lost their lives as well
during these operations so that's a big
dilemma for Netanyahu unless he really
considers them as a collateral damage
and he's not able to say this to his own
people like you know I mean so it's it's
it's it's not Nat is not an easy
position as well so I'm not sure okay so
how far he will go with this military
operation because the RAF issue is the
big uh it's the elephant of the room I
mean 1.5 million Palestinians cornered
in a very narrow area near the borders
what are you going to do with them I
mean how are you going to conduct a huge
military operation with these people
there and one thing also Hamas in these
negotiations have have requested or
demanded the return of people to the
north so if he's not allowing people to
to go to the to the north and
threatening with the major operation
Rafa I just wonder how is he going to do
it how right it' be interesting to see
what happens as you say the next 48
hours time I come in thank you my
pleasure